---
layout: post
title:  "Pandas"
date:   2018-01-30 18:43:31 +0800
categories: jekyll update
---
## python
### Pandas
- 1. `import Pandas as pd`    
 `x = pd.read_csv("path/to/x.csv"), index_col = 0`
- 2.column access`x["column label"]`
raw access`x.loc[row label]` elements access `x[row,column]`
`loc` also allows you to select both rows and columns from a DataFrame.
[pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org/)
df.loc[:,['A','B']]
Selecting on a multi-axis by label


how to add columns
how to putput selected row and columns

### Matplotlib
- 1.Basic Plots with Matplotlib
* i.The general syntax is`import package.subpackage as local_name.`such as `import matplotlib.pyplot as plt `
* ii. `plt.plot(a, b)` `plt.scatter()` `plt.xscale(log)` on a logarithmic scale `plt.show()` to display the plot
- 2.Histograms`plt.hist(values,bins=n)`plots a histogram of the list named x `plt.hist(x)`
 `plt.clf()` clean and start again
- 3.Customization
* i. `plt.xlabel('')` `plt.title('')` `plt.ytick([0,2,4,6,8,10])` means start from 0 up to 10
 how to combine theses
* ii. `fill_between() `  build a line plot where the area under the graph is colored.
* iii.  `plt.scatter(alpha = n, ,)`. Alpha can be set from zero to one, where 0 totally transparant, and 1 is not transparant.
* iiii. Add `plt.grid(True)` after the `plt.text()`calls so that gridlines are drawn on the plot.
[size image and source code](https://matplotlib.org/1.5.1/gallery.html)

### Boolean Logic and Control Flow
[Boolean Operations](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#boolean-operations-and-or-not)
- 1.relational operators`!=`not equal `==` equal `<` less than `>` greater than
- 2.logical operators `and` `or` `not`
Notice that `not` has a higher priority than `and` and `or`, it is executed first.
- 3.conditional statements`if` `else` `elif`

```
if condition :
expression
elif condition :
expression
else condition :
expression

```
[More Control Flow Tools](https://docs.python.org/3.5/tutorial/controlflow.html)
